So now we can mark items as favorites and we can filter for that which is pretty neat,
what else can we do in this app?
Well quite a lot,
how about adding items to a cart?
That's something we can't do right now,
this button here doesn't do anything.
So this is the next step or the
next thing I want to focus on, I want to be able to click that add to cart item here in a product item
and then actually add that item to a cart. For this,
the first question of course is, how do we want to manage our cart?
We could manage it here in our products provider, in this class but I rather want to manage my
products in here
and later for example, we'll also have ways of adding and editing and deleting products
and I want to manage all of that in here but not really the cart.
Hence it makes sense to add a new class and I'll add it in a new file, the
cart.dart file. In there, cart is the class
and since I plan on using this with the provider package and I want to notify widgets that are listening
about updates, we'll add the ChangeNotifier, mixin here which you can also import from widgets.dart,
so from foundation/ material or widget.dart, that all works, simply because all these files also inherit
or import from each other
you could say. So now here,
that's my cart
and in that cart, I want to have a couple of cart items.
I'll define it here next to my cart class
but you could define it in a separate file too and I'll name this cart item.
This is now just a class, not using ChangeNotifier
and in here, I simply want to find how a cart item should look like in this application.
Now as always, there are various ways of structuring this,
I think every item should have an ID.
It should probably have a title of the product which is stored in the cart,
it should also have a quantity, so how many of these items, of these products do we have in there,
is it one T-shirt or five?
And also the price per product
and we can then calculate the total price of course by multiplying it with the quantity.
We need a constructor here for cart item
and again, as always you can use named or unnamed positional arguments, I'll go for named ones here, get
the ID, get the title, get the quantity and get the price
and also
as always, I actually will add required here because we need all that information, like this.
Now the cart items can be managed here in the cart class.
So in here, we could have a list of cart items
but actually, I want to map every cart item to the ID of the product it belongs to. This ID here
in the cart
Items should be the ID of this cart item, that's not the same as the ID of the product because
every cart item is not just a product,
it is a new object which also contains information about the quantity for example.
So this cart item object has a different ID than the product it belongs to.
So here, I want to manage my cart items that I have in a cart in a map where the key is the product ID.
This will also make it very simple for us to work with this cart later. So we can have a map where the
keys are strings because product IDs in our product model are just strings and the value will be of
type cart item
and then we have our items or _items here to be precise
and initially, that's nothing and that is a cart item with a capital I
but now of course we want to be able to get our items that are in the cart, so I can add a getter where
we get that same map, I'll name this items and there, I return a new map and we can also use the spread
operator here on items to pull out the key-value pairs from this items map and add it to a new map
to return a copy and add the get keyword in front of that. But besides a getter, I now also want have a way
of adding an item.
So here, I'll add a function, add item, where I expect to get some information about the product, namely
the product ID, the price and the title and quantity will always be one, we can only add one item at
a time let's say. So these are the three pieces of information which I need here - title, price
and then the ID which I use as a key in the map
and now the goal of course is to add that item to our cart items. For that, we first of all need to check
whether we already have that item in the cart because if we do, we only need to increase the quantity,
if we don't have it in there yet, we need to add a brand new entry to our cart items map. So here, I'll
add an if check and check my _items which are already items in a cart with contains key whether
they already have an entry for this product ID
and that's the advantage of using the product ID as a key, we can conveniently check whether we have an
entry for that ID and if yes, we know we already have a cart item for that product in there,
we need to simply change the quantity.
So here, product ID is the key for which I check
and then in here we need to change the quantity of that existing entry, else we need to add a new entry
and let's start with that else case. There, I of course want to access my items and then use put if absent
to add a new entry to that map, where the key is the product ID of course and then the value which
I'll want to add is my cart item, a new cart item which I instantiate here. Now that cart item needs
to get an ID and here, I'll use datetime now to string to have a kind of unique ID, not perfect but
will do for now.
We then need to forward the title which we get as an argument of course
here and we also need to forward the price, which we also get as an argument. Now important, put if absent
actually does not just take a value here but a function that creates the value, so we can simply add
an anonymous function here which returns that new cart item and price here of course should be a double,
that's also important.
So with that, we're creating a new cart item here and now we need to set the quantity and of course the
quantity here is simply one,
we added it for the first time. So this adds a new cart item to our map of cart items.
Now what if we already contain that key? If we already have an entry for that cart item,
then we just want to change the quantity and that means we can simply call items update and
now we define the key for which we want to update the value and that's product ID
and then here update also takes a function which should return the new cart item we want to store.
So here, we have a new cart item instance and this function automatically gets the existing cart item,
so the existing value it found for this key, which is of course great because that means we can update
the new item based on the old item.
So that's something we get automatically from the update method,
it calls this function here and automatically gives us the existing item.
So here, this new cart item which we built will therefore be based on the existing cart item
and it will for example keep the ID of the existing cart item,
it will keep what we stored as a title there and it will keep what we stored as a price there.
That doesn't change but the quantity should change
and that's our existing cart
item quantity plus one.
So we add one to the quantity,
that's the core difference. So with that, we're updating our map of items, we're updating our map of cart
items.
Now we can start using that cart in our application.